docs/tutorial-basics/markdown-features.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Markdown Features

Docusaurus supports **[Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)** and a few **additional features**.

## Front Matter

Markdown documents have metadata at the top called [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/):

```text title="my-doc.md"
// highlight-start
---
id: my-doc-id
title: My document title
description: My document description
slug: /my-custom-url
---
// highlight-end

## Markdown heading

Markdown text with [links](./hello.md)
```

## Links

Regular Markdown links are supported, using url paths or relative file paths.

```md
Let's see how to [Create a page](/create-a-page).
```

```md
Let's see how to [Create a page](./create-a-page.md).
```

**Result:** Let's see how to [Create a page](./create-a-page.md).

## Images

Regular Markdown images are supported.

You can use absolute paths to reference images in the static directory (`static/img/docusaurus.png`):

```md
![Docusaurus logo](/img/docusaurus.png)
```

![Docusaurus logo](/img/docusaurus.png)

You can reference images relative to the current file as well. This is particularly useful to colocate images close to the Markdown files using them:

```md
![Docusaurus logo](./img/docusaurus.png)
```

## Code Blocks

Markdown code blocks are supported with Syntax highlighting.

````md
```jsx title="src/components/HelloDocusaurus.js"
function HelloDocusaurus() {
  return <h1>Hello, Docusaurus!</h1>;
}
```
````

```jsx title="src/components/HelloDocusaurus.js"
function HelloDocusaurus() {
  return <h1>Hello, Docusaurus!</h1>;
}
```

### Highlighting with comments

You can use comments with `highlight-next-line`, `highlight-start`, and `highlight-end` to select which lines are highlighted.

```js
function HighlightSomeText(highlight) {
  if (highlight) {
    // highlight-next-line
    return "This text is highlighted!";
  }

  return "Nothing highlighted";
}

function HighlightMoreText(highlight) {
  // highlight-start
  if (highlight) {
    return "This range is highlighted!";
  }
  // highlight-end

  return "Nothing highlighted";
}
```

## Admonitions

Docusaurus has a special syntax to create admonitions and callouts:

```md
:::tip My tip

Use this awesome feature option

:::

:::danger Take care

This action is dangerous

:::
```

:::tip My tip

Use this awesome feature option

:::

:::danger Take care

This action is dangerous

:::

:::note

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::tip

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::info

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::warning

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::danger

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

## MDX and React Components

[MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) can make your documentation more **interactive** and allows using any **React components inside Markdown**:

```jsx
export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '20px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '10px',
      cursor: 'pointer',
    }}
    onClick={() => {
      alert(`You clicked the color ${color} with label ${children}`)
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

This is <Highlight color="#25c2a0">Docusaurus green</Highlight> !

This is <Highlight color="#1877F2">Facebook blue</Highlight> !
```

export const Highlight = ({ children, color }) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: "20px",
      color: "#fff",
      padding: "10px",
      cursor: "pointer",
    }}
    onClick={() => {
      alert(`You clicked the color ${color} with label ${children}`);
    }}
  >
    {children}
  </span>
);

This is <Highlight color="#25c2a0">Docusaurus green</Highlight> !

This is <Highlight color="#1877F2">Facebook blue</Highlight> !

:::tip[Use tabs in admonitions]

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="apple" label="Apple">
    This is an apple 🍎
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="orange" label="Orange">
    This is an orange 🍊
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="banana" label="Banana">
    This is a banana 🍌
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="A" label="A">
    Grupo A:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="B" label="B">
    Grupo B:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="C" label="C">
    Grupo C:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="D" label="D">
    Grupo D:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="E" label="E">
    Grupo E:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="F" label="F">
    Grupo F:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="G" label="G">
    Grupo G:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="H" label="H">
    Grupo H:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="I" label="I">
    Grupo I:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="J" label="J">
    Grupo J:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="K" label="K">
    Grupo K:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="L" label="L">
    Grupo L:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="X" label="X">
    Grupo X:
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

```jsx
// highlight-next-line
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
  <TabItem value="win" label="Windows">Use Ctrl + C to copy.</TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">Use Command + C to copy.</TabItem>
</Tabs>

// highlight-next-line
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
  <TabItem value="win" label="Windows">Use Ctrl + V to paste.</TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">Use Command + V to paste.</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

[//]: # (This is a comment that is unlikely to be rendered.)
[comment]: # (This is another comment using a different label.)

<!-- This is a comment that will not be rendered in the final output, but it will be visible if you view the source HTML. -->

Commit message:

Diagrama de pinos do STM32F4x1

docs/tutorial-basics/markdown-features.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Markdown Features

Docusaurus supports **[Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax)** and a few **additional features**.

## Front Matter

Markdown documents have metadata at the top called [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/):

```text title="my-doc.md"
// highlight-start
---
id: my-doc-id
title: My document title
description: My document description
slug: /my-custom-url
---
// highlight-end

## Markdown heading

Markdown text with [links](./hello.md)
```

## Links

Regular Markdown links are supported, using url paths or relative file paths.

```md
Let's see how to [Create a page](/create-a-page).
```

```md
Let's see how to [Create a page](./create-a-page.md).
```

**Result:** Let's see how to [Create a page](./create-a-page.md).

## Images

Regular Markdown images are supported.

You can use absolute paths to reference images in the static directory (`static/img/docusaurus.png`):

```md
![STM32F4x1 microcontroller pinout diagram;](/img/MiniSTM32F4x1/STM32F4x1_PinoutDiagram_RichardBalint.png)
```

## Diagrama de pinos do STM32F4x1

---

![STM32F4x1 microcontroller pinout diagram;](/img/MiniSTM32F4x1/STM32F4x1_PinoutDiagram_RichardBalint.png)

---

```md
![Docusaurus logo](/img/docusaurus.png)
```

![Docusaurus logo](/img/docusaurus.png)

You can reference images relative to the current file as well. This is particularly useful to colocate images close to the Markdown files using them:

```md
![Docusaurus logo](./img/docusaurus.png)
```

## Code Blocks

Markdown code blocks are supported with Syntax highlighting.

````md
```jsx title="src/components/HelloDocusaurus.js"
function HelloDocusaurus() {
  return <h1>Hello, Docusaurus!</h1>;
}
```
````

```jsx title="src/components/HelloDocusaurus.js"
function HelloDocusaurus() {
  return <h1>Hello, Docusaurus!</h1>;
}
```

### Highlighting with comments

You can use comments with `highlight-next-line`, `highlight-start`, and `highlight-end` to select which lines are highlighted.

```js
function HighlightSomeText(highlight) {
  if (highlight) {
    // highlight-next-line
    return "This text is highlighted!";
  }

  return "Nothing highlighted";
}

function HighlightMoreText(highlight) {
  // highlight-start
  if (highlight) {
    return "This range is highlighted!";
  }
  // highlight-end

  return "Nothing highlighted";
}
```

## Admonitions

Docusaurus has a special syntax to create admonitions and callouts:

```md
:::tip My tip

Use this awesome feature option

:::

:::danger Take care

This action is dangerous

:::
```

:::tip My tip

Use this awesome feature option

:::

:::danger Take care

This action is dangerous

:::

:::note

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::tip

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::info

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::warning

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

:::danger

Some **content** with _Markdown_ `syntax`. Check [this `api`](#).

:::

## MDX and React Components

[MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) can make your documentation more **interactive** and allows using any **React components inside Markdown**:

```jsx
export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '20px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '10px',
      cursor: 'pointer',
    }}
    onClick={() => {
      alert(`You clicked the color ${color} with label ${children}`)
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

This is <Highlight color="#25c2a0">Docusaurus green</Highlight> !

This is <Highlight color="#1877F2">Facebook blue</Highlight> !
```

export const Highlight = ({ children, color }) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: "20px",
      color: "#fff",
      padding: "10px",
      cursor: "pointer",
    }}
    onClick={() => {
      alert(`You clicked the color ${color} with label ${children}`);
    }}
  >
    {children}
  </span>
);

This is <Highlight color="#25c2a0">Docusaurus green</Highlight> !

This is <Highlight color="#1877F2">Facebook blue</Highlight> !

:::tip[Use tabs in admonitions]

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="apple" label="Apple">
    This is an apple 🍎
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="orange" label="Orange">
    This is an orange 🍊
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="banana" label="Banana">
    This is a banana 🍌
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="A" label="A">
    Grupo A:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="B" label="B">
    Grupo B:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="C" label="C">
    Grupo C:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="D" label="D">
    Grupo D:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="E" label="E">
    Grupo E:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="F" label="F">
    Grupo F:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="G" label="G">
    Grupo G:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="H" label="H">
    Grupo H:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="I" label="I">
    Grupo I:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="J" label="J">
    Grupo J:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="K" label="K">
    Grupo K:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="L" label="L">
    Grupo L:
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="X" label="X">
    Grupo X:
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

```jsx
// highlight-next-line
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
  <TabItem value="win" label="Windows">Use Ctrl + C to copy.</TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">Use Command + C to copy.</TabItem>
</Tabs>

// highlight-next-line
<Tabs groupId="operating-systems">
  <TabItem value="win" label="Windows">Use Ctrl + V to paste.</TabItem>
  <TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">Use Command + V to paste.</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

[//]: # "This is a comment that is unlikely to be rendered."
[comment]: # "This is another comment using a different label."

<!-- This is a comment that will not be rendered in the final output, but it will be visible if you view the source HTML. -->
