docs/software/PlatformIO/PlatformIO.md, before:

---
id: platformio-intro
title: Intro
sidebar_position: 1
description: Your Gateway to Embedded Software Development Excellence.
slug: /platformio-intro
---

# PlatformIO

## Recursos

ST STM32: development platform for PlatformIO
[platform-ststm32](https://github.com/platformio/platform-ststm32)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/platformio/platform-ststm32.git
```

## Arquivo de configuração do Projeto

[platformio.ini](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/index.html)

## ST-LINK

[ST-LINK](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/plus/debug-tools/stlink.html)


## YouTube Videos
### How to install PlatformIO on Windows

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-DstZgd52YI?si=orKtFCR-2VK9JMtp" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### How to create an PlatformIO Account with GitHub

- https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/plus/pio-account.html

PlatformIO IDE has built-in UI in PlatformIO Home to manage PlatformIO Account. You can create a new account, reset your password, update profile, or fetch an authentication token. This UI must be used to login with OAuth.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eGjA48VkL1s?si=1XwfLk9BkxWc89hE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### PlatformIO Bluepill Hello Test

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lbhBO_BxT9I?si=66wYh60_ObPK8yoB" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>



PlatformIO STM32 Black Pill

Commit message:

Add links to PlatformIO tutorials and examples
Added references to PlatformIO tutorials and STM32Cube HAL debugging/unit testing guides to improve documentation and provide users with more learning resources.

docs/software/PlatformIO/PlatformIO.md, after:

---
id: platformio-intro
title: Intro
sidebar_position: 1
description: Your Gateway to Embedded Software Development Excellence.
slug: /platformio-intro
---

# PlatformIO

## Recursos

ST STM32: development platform for PlatformIO
[platform-ststm32](https://github.com/platformio/platform-ststm32)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/platformio/platform-ststm32.git
```

## Arquivo de configuração do Projeto

[platformio.ini](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/index.html)

## ST-LINK

[ST-LINK](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/plus/debug-tools/stlink.html)


## YouTube Videos
### How to install PlatformIO on Windows

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-DstZgd52YI?si=orKtFCR-2VK9JMtp" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### How to create an PlatformIO Account with GitHub

- https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/plus/pio-account.html

PlatformIO IDE has built-in UI in PlatformIO Home to manage PlatformIO Account. You can create a new account, reset your password, update profile, or fetch an authentication token. This UI must be used to login with OAuth.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/eGjA48VkL1s?si=1XwfLk9BkxWc89hE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### PlatformIO Bluepill Hello Test

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/lbhBO_BxT9I?si=66wYh60_ObPK8yoB" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

- [Tutorials and Examples](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/tutorials/index.html)
- [STM32Cube HAL and Nucleo-F401RE: debugging and unit testing](https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/tutorials/ststm32/stm32cube_debugging_unit_testing.html)

PlatformIO STM32 Black Pill
